welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to Sam's business
growth show excited today to be joined
by Jason cutter Jason is the CEO at
cutter Consulting Group where he helps
create scalable training programs from
new sales rep he improves the same
processes to increase sales $0.25 he
turns average sales reps into sells
closing machines and he optimizes the
lead generation process to create a
profitable cost per acquisition his host
at the sales experience podcast and his
author of the soon-to-be-released
selling with authentic persuasion Jason
a warm welcome sir how you doing I'm
doing great Sam how are you all good my
friend
looking forward to a good conversation
today with yourself and yeah it should
be fun man so as always there's a few
key things we want to learn from you
Jason we'd love to learn your top
business great tips and we'd love to
learn your top marketing strategies so
be it digital marketing or beer offline
marketing things like Cole email cold
coolers etc but before we get to this
before we get to that good stuff we want
to know a bit more about yourself so a
bit more about your background so we're
grew up some of the key places that
you've worked at and some of the lessons
that you learn at some of the businesses
up to founding your own company and
there could be eight lessons and
anything to do ourselves to the
marketing good for you to do a business
so yeah I'd love to hear it man well
first up I'm super excited to have this
conversation I think this is fun and the
framework of this should be interesting
for me I grew up in the San Francisco
Bay Area in a town called Fremont in
California and I it's so funny because
we look at things now and what I do now
and sales and persuasion and coaching
and I was a shy awkward only child late
bloomer and you know my parents my mom
is a banker finance manager my dad was a
engineer program manager and I went to
school actually my bachelor's degree you
know some people realize this is in
marine biology and I spent years tagging
sharks and from there yeah so I
doing that and it's tough to find work
in that because it was so competitive I
didn't know what I wanted to do really
in life I thought I just didn't want to
deal with people but I liked solving
problems ended up moving to Seattle and
working at Microsoft for a couple years
doing tech support which was interesting
but I found out that wasn't really where
I wanted to be either it was kind of a
journey of self-awareness and then in
2002 I got my first sales job where I
was working in the mortgage business so
helping people buy homes and refinance
and that was good except you know I
didn't really get any training I didn't
know what I was doing
you know I'm 27 years old and first
sales job and so still pretty Jason
throw in a pen right this is the product
we sell this is the service we sell
right hit the phones hit the emails
guest died yeah and mine was like that
but a slightly different version which
is you know the owner basically on my
first day he said I sent ten thousand
postcards last week here's the phone
here's a lead sheet when the phone rings
ask these questions fill this out and
then bring it to me and then I'll take
it from there
and I'm like okay sounds good I have no
idea what we're gonna do and so I
basically learned that process that way
and I also learned some mistakes I
learned from some mistakes and things
that I was doing wrong that I even teach
people to today because like I still
remember those lessons and failures from
2000 to 2003 and so from there I moved
to helping people who were in
foreclosure went to work at a startup
that was doing that same thing helping
people in the States avoid foreclosure
and that's where I got my first
opportunity to really learn about
selling and sales over the phone instead
of in person you know when you're when I
was in the mortgage business it was all
about okay get in front of somebody as
soon as possible face to face build a
relationship build rapport and then
everything is easier versus when I moved
into a company where it was telephone
sales then it was all about how do you
do all of that over the phone which was
a very unique challenge and talk about
of learning I'm glad I was fine Jason so
we were helping people who were in
foreclosure so somebody who was
potentially gonna lose their house to an
auction because they weren't making
their payments and we were trying to
either help them
save their home or sell their home
before that timeline you know basically
avoid the sheriff coming and kicking
them out of their house and so you think
that would be easy because people would
be in trouble but what I learned is a
lot of people they just they're so
scared they do nothing and so I learned
a lot about how people think the fears
they have the fact that you know they
just want to put their head in the sand
and so there was a lot of lessons from
that from a sales side of human behavior
in fact I started studying addiction
programs and 12-step rehab programs that
help people usually go get over drug
addictions but there's a lot of people
who get into financial addictions or
relationship addictions and you know
it's a lot of similar stuff so that was
yeah I mean that I'm sure there's I'm
sure there's a lot we can cover on that
I mean it
thinking relating that to any cells any
product that you might be selling any
service that everyone too near might be
selling I think it's often the case
where you're speaking to people they
don't really want to do anything let's
say you're selling I don't know CRM
software they don't really want to
upgrade until it becomes an absolute
pain in the arse so let's say you get a
lead come in you've got a trance for
that manually via email into the CRM
system then you've got to update all the
names you've got to update the details
like the estimated order value the
estimated time of closed persons name so
on and so forth every time you call them
you've got to log that in until it gets
so painful that it's taking a let's say
an hour of two hours of your day each
and every day you think yeah we need to
upgrade our CRM now so that I guess
that's kind of what you mean is it yeah
well and that's a thing and I teach that
a lot now and I've been helping
salespeople realize that is your
prospects the people you're dealing with
they don't like change their number one
fear is the fear of change and what
could happen right there's a part of all
of our brains your your brain my brain
all of us still have this part where it
still is in survival mode right it's the
primal part some people call it the
lizard brain you know it still thinks
it's thousands and thousands of years
ago fighting for survival out of a cave
or on the savanna and it's literally
thinking that everything out there is
trying to kill us and any decision we
make if we pick the wrong bear
we could get sick and die right so our
prospects are the same way they're
afraid of change because change equals
the potential for death and so they
don't want to do it and your biggest
your biggest responsibility as a
salesperson is to help them feel
comfortable with change accept change
and then you know make that change that
would benefit them and then there's the
whole buyer's remorse thing like after
they make the decision then their brain
starts freaking out again ooh so let's
say we were offering something via
software as I've given that example
Jason have you got any tips to help
overcome these I don't know whether it's
cool them objections but I think they're
just common with any any potential
customer or prospect that you speak to
everyone no one really likes change do
they and if you're anything like me I've
been saying for ages too I go over to my
fiancee I've been running because we're
on lockdown and I've been running two or
three days a week and I'm not even
wearing running trainers and it's got to
the stage where it's literally hurting
my ankles and hurting my knees because
I'm not running in trailers and I think
now I need to buy trainers I think and
I'm that annoying prospect it won't buy
yeah well in my experience I going to
either the trainers or the CRM example
or anything it's really about being
somebody who's investigating and asking
questions and digging as deep as
possible into the prospect and what they
need and want to uncover their the the
deepest goals they have the deepest pain
they're dealing with the whatever that
is for them and go as deep as possible
as much as they'll let you now to
usually do that you have to have some
level of trust before they're gonna
share so you have to do some steps
properly which is what I teach people is
you know you've got to take them through
a process to then build enough trust
well they'll share that but you know if
I were to try to sell you trainers or
try to sell somebody CRM and I just do
what most salespeople do which is I'm
just gonna give you a big monologue and
I'm just gonna read off everything off
the brochure and tell you about the
features if you buy it's just dumb luck
because that means you were interested
it doesn't mean I did anything as a
salesperson versus if I really dig deep
and I'm like okay Sam tell me about your
running tell me about your goals what is
you're trying to achieve tell me about
your pain okay boom here's what I've got
right that will help you accomplish all
of those things for you not for me right
sure so basically get going deeper on a
level understanding why understanding
the issues and then customizing a
solution is actually relevant based on
what you've discussed yeah and the
biggest thing that I see a lot of
salespeople are missing is they don't
know the answer to the question which is
why does your prospect want to buy what
you're selling for their reasons what is
it that it's solving for them what is it
gonna do for them how does it accomplish
their goals not what you think or assume
everybody wants you just assume
everybody wants your CRM because it's so
amazing it's like no no why do they want
to need it that's the key yeah another
great point and I think it's also sales
reps I've certainly was guilty in in my
younger days and as the web choice as a
quick example additional marketing
companies were blessed to get quite a
lot of inbound inquiries back in my
younger days I used to think that every
inbound leads should be yourself so it
wasn't really it wasn't really doing
proper discovery which brings us back to
asking good questions it was more ask a
couple questions right here's the quote
quietly buying and then you get ghosted
people would stop responding to emails
or calls in this slave now I obviously
notice with I understand selling process
and things like that but yeah for many
people who are new to sales I'm sure
it's a common problem yeah that and
that's the classic example what you said
which we've all done everybody who
started out in sales is either either
starts out that way or gets to a point
where they they think they know it all
or they don't need to go through the
pitch because they just think people
should want it and yeah it's just
missing that discovery piece definitely
and then you mentioned another great
point Jason which is buyer's remorse
which is not something we've really
covered in in this podcast at all so
yeah be great great to learn a bit more
about how we could perhaps avoid that
and I'm guessing you mean if if someone
perhaps says yes let's go ahead you
close the deal you raise the invoice
when you send the purchase order and
it's been a few days nothing's hit your
company bank account and you're
wondering what's going on you're trying
to email them and no one's coming back
yeah I mean so there's two scenarios
depending on what you your sales process
right so you know specifically in that
example that's a hundred percent correct
like you got somebody they're excited
you think they're on board they're ready
to go you send over the invoice you send
over the link so they can submit the
payment however that looks and then they
disappear right so buyer's remorse
kicked in there's also times where
somebody maybe buys over the phone it's
literally you know in the call handing
over the credit card information signing
up or signing up you know some way and
then after the fact there's this buyer's
remorse where they want to cancel and
try to get their money back right so
there's times when they haven't paid
there's times when they have paid and
that really goes back to that fear part
I mean there's there's something in
their brain that after the endorphins
wear off from the excitement of the
conversation they're gonna get hit with
this thing that says oh my gosh this
could be a bad decision what if this
happens what if this am I making the
wrong choice then there's also the
people in their life right you always
have to keep in mind that as soon as you
hang up the phone with somebody they're
gonna go talk to somebody else in their
life a spouse parent adult child friend
everyone has an Uncle Bob who seems to
know everything about whatever you're
selling and they're gonna dis weighed
them from I'm buying from you like
always happens everyone's got an Uncle
Bob and so you have to mitigate that in
advance which is what I focus on is a
lot of people is you know what's gonna
happen then in your conversations
set it up so that they know that when
they wake up at 2:00 in the morning and
a cold sweat thinking they shouldn't
have bought what they did you have
mitigated that so they feel okay and
then you want to do some follow-ups just
to make sure but fundamentally this goes
back to what I said a few minutes ago is
if you don't know why they needed to buy
for their reasons then you won't be able
to get that person back on board that
hasn't paid the invoice or the person is
freaking out because they don't they
don't know why they wanted it yeah it's
this is a tricky one and because I guess
there's there's a lot of questions you
can ask and like you say some some
scenarios bring it back here to our
company web
the amount of times people have said or
nearly agree to deal and then they've
said look my cousin can do a website
let's say for example Chee there you go
or they can do it this strategy cheaper
or whatever it may be and so it's yeah I
guess I guess like you says it's more
blocking those who asking the questions
early so yes yes we might be more
expense the investment might be higher
than your friend down the road or your
cousin doing this project is that gonna
be anything I'll tell you like cuz I
I've had that before where there's
always does somebody could do a cheaper
somebody has a better deal or offer
somebody thinks they can just do it
themselves and what I've always told
those people because I want them to get
that out of the way that the challenges
a lot of sales reps try to manipulate or
twist their arms and give them to do it
but then there's that buyer's remorse
really heavy because they know they
should have gone with their cousin and
instead I just tell people that's great
I want you to go do that and if it
doesn't work let me know I'll be here
I've even told people sometimes I'm like
hey go do that in my experience I know
it usually doesn't work out when
somebody tries to help you with this and
my promise to you is that when you call
me back in a month because it's not
going well I want to help you and I
promise I won't say I told you so
having a bit of humor and and letting
them know right because their fear is
that they don't want to call you back
because they're embarrassed because you
were right they were wrong their cousin
doesn't know what they're doing with
their websites and they should have gone
with you but nobody wants to admit
they're wrong
most people don't and it's embarrassing
and so I always just promise people I I
just want to help you I don't care I'm
it's there's no shame love it love it
okay moving forwards so that was the the
telephone role basically helping people
not get kicked out of their properties
and what would you ask yourself Jason so
in that role I became a Sales Leader
there for the first time so I started
managing people developing processes and
then from there I moved to a company
that was doing was helping people with
their credit card debt so it was okay
attached to a nonprofit credit
counseling agency and it was helping
people get out of credit card debt and
avoid bankruptcy and you know people who
were just way over their head and what
was interesting is again you'd think
that'd be really easy you're dealing
with somebody has a lot of credit card
debt but you know there's some
fear and worry and you know all these
things that people are dealing with so
that was interesting so managing teams
and then my position there evolved into
business development which is where I
really started to become self-aware what
I really enjoyed most like I've always
loved training and coaching and leading
and then building processes but IB I
went into a business development role
helping other affiliates come on board
with offices and then so I was training
them and then I would go to their sites
and train them there and coach their
their reps and help them with the whole
process and so that was interesting and
fun because I realized you know you've
got to take what you can do here and
you've got to essentially make a
franchise out of it right like if you go
to McDonald's or somewhere like that
anywhere in the world it's always the
same it feels the same the menus
basically the same the food is the same
and so you know learning how to take
that and systems that I was using but
make it so that anyone could use it yeah
great and I bet there was some I guess
there's some lessons you could share
with us in terms of managing teams and
teams of sales professionals and things
like that that could be useful for our
audience yeah I think that the biggest
thing that I've always found at one of
the there's obviously the hiring part
there's the selection part I mean that's
a whole whole nother conversation about
you know recruiting the right people and
and also having a culture you know do
you have a mission a vision core values
do you have something that identifies
your company and then you know if
someone's gonna be a good fit or not but
the biggest thing that I've I've learned
over the years is that generally what
sales managers and sales leaders do is
they try to do the carrot or the stick
they're trying to do external motivation
right so the carrot is hey if you sell
more deals here's a bigger pile of money
or here's a watch or here's a TV or
here's a trip to to you know the
Caribbean the challenge with that is
that you have to continually increase
those bribes because people get
desensitized right like okay here's a
thousand dollars okay that's cool now
what are you gonna do what are you gonna
give me to work hard this week right and
so then you have to keep increasing it
and then the other side is the stick
which is you know threats of termination
terminating people just leads to high
turnover and the biggest solution I
found for that is to help people
identify what it is they want and the
exercise I do with everybody is I have
them
especially when they just start in sales
is I have them create a vision board so
create a vision board sounds sounds
sounds it sounds childish it sounds
hokey you know some people are like
that's weird but literally having this
you know board of images to put
especially an if you're on a phone and
it's literally staring at you you need
something to help you stay motivated so
when you've heard know 50 times or a
hundred times what's gonna make you pick
up the phone and call one more person
instead of the threats of your boss
standing over you great great and yeah
I've kind of recently set up a vision
board and I do we've had guests on that
do believe in them we've had guests that
don't and personally I've told this
story briefly before but one of the when
I was working a marketing company a few
years ago one of the best managers I had
or he was the boss at the time he sat me
down probably a month or so after after
me I started working for him I studied
sales guy and he basically said Sam
would you want to get out of this out of
this sales row and I say what do you
mean he's a white boy he started here
while working for me as a writer I want
to make money want to do this want to do
that news I know what you really want I
was like well when I want to move in
with my girlfriend at the time and and
therefore I want to be able to get house
together so want to put down a mortgage
and let's to be able to go on a few
nights holidays actually mentioned the
Korean Caribbean Mexico Jamaica where
though maybe he said okay we're gonna
put down a plan we're gonna make that
happen
we're gonna make it happen to six months
I said there's no way there's no way we
gonna do that anyway we sat down
probably a good few hours we've
basically mapped out a daily plan a
weekly plan and a monthly plan we split
into clear actionable milestones and
probably four or five months down the
line I'd hit that amount so I'd had
enough to put down a mortgage for the
house and do the other thing so as I was
amazed because we broke it down into
manageable chunks so that was yeah just
a quick story on kind of how I've seen
that into action I love it and what that
tells me is that manager that boss that
amazing coach of people not just a
manager so a lot of times people are
managing salespeople and they think they
should manage and micromanage but really
you should be a leader and a coach
which is okay what's your goal Sam right
what would whether you do a vision board
or not I always recommend it some people
are you know driven by images sometimes
it's not just you know flashy things on
there maybe it's quotes maybe it's like
a bigger picture thing depends on what
the purpose is for you in that moment
but you know identifying that then
setting goals setting action steps and
then holding people accountable like hey
you said this was your goal where are
you at with this why aren't you doing it
as a coach and a leader not a boss and a
micromanager and someone that's putting
somebody down it's like you said you
wanted to buy a house am like where are
we at with the numbers what can you do
today is that still important to you
love that love that okay excellent so
yeah fast forward a little bit Jason was
the next step setting your own up on
your own and your consulting group or
was there something before there was two
stops before they all go on from that so
at that period of my life some things
happened and for several reasons I took
a break from the sales world in the real
world and I actually worked as a
government contractor as a civilian
working on government contracts and it
deployed overseas for a little while so
I did that for four years and it was
interesting because I spend a lot of
time in the Middle East and it gave me a
lot of time to think about stuff
actually worked on and started the
process of getting my MBA which I
completed and I was working on some
other projects and then I came back in
2016 and worked at a company where I was
helping manage and lead sales marketing
at one point I had sales marketing and
operations which included customer
service and processing all under me
which which was a lot but for me I look
at the customer is the main important
focus and it's one customer that starts
in marketing then goes to sales then
goes to customer service then goes to
billing in all those things and a lot of
companies treat them as separate their
lead separate and it's always a battle
of sales versus marketing sales versus
this everybody's versus everybody and
instead like it should be we'll all won
yeah that sounds like a lot of things to
juggle at the same time yeah I'm
guessing sugar I'm guessing you learn a
lot in terms of time management and
client management or things like that
time management delegation and then when
I went into consulting a year and a half
ago then it's taking those systems and
processes and looking at it and being
able to document things be able to
create scalable systems that people can
do because one of the things I learned
in my career and this is what I focus on
now as a consultant right we're talking
about tips and things that I learned is
a lot of companies you know especially
if their sales organizations they think
the solution and the way to win is to
have super stars and superstars are
great the challenge is it's hard to
scale with super stars super stars can
be difficult to manage and lead they can
be very challenging to deal with they're
also really expensive and for some
organizations that works well for some
for most organizations it doesn't right
like it's really hard to find you know a
hundred LeBron James and put them in one
room together and have them all work
together and then you know make lots of
sales like that's really hard to do
instead what I found is more successful
force companies to scale is finding you
know people for sales who maybe they
don't have a ton of experience they have
the desire they have some basic skills
that they have the openness and
willingness to learn and be coached and
then you give them systems and scripts
and processes and a CRM and and you know
leads and they will create amazing
results even if they're not superstars
love that
so more safe searching for people that
have got the motivation they've got the
right attitude rather than maybe sales
heavy hitters that might have quite a
bad actually and things like that it
could be hard work yeah because it's
tough too it's tough to scale that way
right and then it's also damaging for
culture I've seen a lot of top sales
reps who just are just destroy company
cultures just because of their attitude
and the way they they think they fit in
versus what a company needs so I
subscribe more to like the McDonald's
model I call McDonald icing your sales
team which is you know McDonald's serves
billions of hamburgers a day based on
you know entry-level employees teenagers
low you know minute
wage you know people who are just
getting started in the workforce but
they do it it's consistent all over the
place so how do you build that for sales
teams where you can take people who mean
well and you can you know help them
achieve amazing stuff awesome month so
maybe forward let's talk a bit more
about your business and it'd be great to
learn at what stage you thought you took
the leap to start off on your own and
how you've been able to scale the
business over the last a year or two a
little bit longer you've been doing it
Jason a year and a half
nice okay yes that's been come how you
got up and the channels oh yeah so for
me I thought about this years ago I want
to do is in fact when I went back to
school and got my MBA that was the plan
I wanted to get my MBA go into
consulting leverage everything I had
done with sales teams and organizations
and then you know parlayed that into
helping people but as a consultant and
then I got a job offer for a company
where I was essentially internally I was
consulted right like I moved from
department to department I fix things I
build things we expanded I started new
offices I did essentially as an employee
everything I would have done as a
consultant and then when that ended I
decided to go into consulting I said
okay now is the chance I'm gonna do this
and it was interesting but you know when
I started and this is the part I always
like to share people is you know there's
a lot of people you see success and you
think it's great and everything is going
well but like for me the first six
months was nothing like I was putting in
a lot of effort I was networking I was I
was working on building things but it
took six months for things to begin
because when I started I didn't have a
huge network I didn't go into it
planning on being I wasn't like okay let
me just build this you know this list
and this networking and a big database
of people you know there which is what
they always advise you to do if you're
gonna start especially consulting so I
didn't but so I just started it kind of
on faith and knowing it was what I
wanted to do and putting in lots of
effort I mean I started my podcast even
before I had clients like I was working
on lots of projects and then it all
started to click and one of the biggest
things for me on the marketing side was
it was all about relationships it was
all about networking
it was about talking to people because
one of the challenges where you know
some people you know cold calls are best
cold calls aren't the best for me what I
have found in the conversations I've had
when as a consultant I'm helping sales
people I'm helping sales teams improve
cold calling and telling somebody hey
you know how's your sales team doing are
they doing bad if they're doing bad I
can help you right like especially sales
managers and/or owners their egos gonna
kick in and they're not gonna be they're
not gonna like the thought of that and
so what I found is relationships
networking you know people who find me
or I come across them or I'm introduced
to them and they're like yes I need help
and that's been the best way for me on
the marketing side but it okay so
working relationships so can we dive a
little bit deeper into that Jason as in
how you're acquiring these relationships
we're talking face-to-face networking we
talking LinkedIn are we talking
introductions our existing clients or
yeah sure a bit more on that sort of
things so some face to face you know
there's going to a trade shows going to
conferences going to networking events
was really good and at least when it's
allowed it's still a really good way I
mean you can do stuff on zoom you can
you can do phone calls you can do all
kinds of things but there's just
something more powerful about meeting
somebody face to face and building some
kind of relationship that way even if
that's just how it starts and then you
never see them again in person I've had
some business start that way where it's
like within 10 minutes like oh this is
great we should do this thing and you
know versus other ways my main platform
that I'm on all the time is LinkedIn I
mean you know it's for business I'm
looking for business people and sales
people and also producing lots of
content so I produce a lot of
information out there like I said my
podcast which is five days a week and is
not really designed for lead generation
some people do podcasts where it's like
huge call to actions and it's really
about driving that interest for me I do
some of that but it's also just a way to
help and show what I can like it's just
content marketing right like we're
talking about different sales and
marketing it's content marketing which
is here's all the stuff I know and just
imagine if this is what I know and I'm
willing to share
on a podcast or in my book just imagine
what I'm not sharing and what you could
get if you hire me and what we could put
into place right so I come from that
approach which is the here's everything
for free like here's all of my knowledge
and then you know putting it together
right like knowing that you how to work
out or knowing how to eat well is
different than hiring a trainer who's
gonna help you do it and put the pieces
together right same thing for you guys
right knowing how to build a website
knowing how to do marketing knowing how
to do these things that's great where I
could watch youtube videos on that all
day that doesn't mean I know what to do
so true that's a really great way of
putting it as well and and I think a lot
of people well perhaps not everyone but
some people I think the shed scared
rather to share tips for free be on
LinkedIn built and usually be on a
podcast they think that if I give all
this away then no one's gonna come to me
but in fact it's quite the opposite
really isn't it I think it helps can
trust Authority and things like that
100% and what I've learned and this is
comes from a you know standpoint of
abundance which is really what drives me
the most you know 7 billion people on
the planet right like how many clients
do I need how many clients can I service
how many customers do I need even with
my book how many people do I want you
know if I my vision is is helping a
hundred thousand people become authentic
persuaders right it's a hundred thousand
out of seven billion that's nothing like
literally that's nothing so there's no
reason to be desperate or scared or have
scarcity by day night and I've always
taught reps at you I mean one of the
biggest things I teach salespeople is if
somebody's not qualified tell them no
like no you're not a good fit I can't
help you go do this instead because it's
so powerful when you do say yes then you
really mean it it's like it's just a
different attitude shift but what I tell
people on that you know about giving it
away for free I tell people all the time
if you listen to my podcast season one
was a hundred and ten episodes each week
was a theme one week was on scripting
one week's on technology one on
marketing ones on referrals if you take
those hundred and ten episodes and you
just go through all of them and listen
or read all the transcripts that's how
to build and run a sales organization
that's it like I said it's everything
you know and what I know because I know
you feel the same way is that if
somebody wants to do that and listen and
take that and not hire me then they
weren't gonna hire me no matter what
even if I kept all the you know the
secrets to myself
that they weren't that person I want the
person who goes through and goes okay
yeah now I want to hire you yeah no
definitely and I don't know about
yourself Jason but over time I mean I
started this show with mainly the goals
of learning from experts sales marketing
business experts lay self sharing
sharing their views with the audience
and over time every now and then I do
get inquiries from people that have
listened to the show and they pop in
they say look Sam loved this episode on
x/y said would love to discuss this and
don't know if you've had the same but
yeah for anyone that's thinking of doing
a podcast it's not quick when it is a
long term a long term thing there's as
long as you're doing something you're
passionate about talking about then it
will pay off in the long run yeah and
just like anything raised long as you're
not forcing it I can tell the podcast
where I feel like people are doing it
because they were told to and they think
that's a good way to market and do lead
generation and it just doesn't feel
doesn't feel like they're excited about
it they're not just doing it where they
don't care I also tell you for me
business-wise I mean I've had success
with the guests that I've had on the
show right so I have a guest on the show
then we're talking about it and then
we're building that relationship and
then next thing you know either they
want to hire me or they know somebody
that I should talk to that's you know I
could help and so that's actually been
more of the lead generation side for me
is actually through the relationships of
people I'm dealing with and talking to
completely agree yes really good way to
build up your network as well and let
you say start in your relationships okay
so we've got networking face to face
we've got creating a podcast and we've
got LinkedIn any other channels Jason
that have helped you acquire new
business perhaps offline cold calling
cold email or perhaps with your website
or any others the website the blog you
know it's it's having that content out
there emailing it out to people you know
I've been running some you know PPC type
campaigns and trying to drive that you
know SEO so that has that has helped as
well again I'm a big one for the inbound
you know for people especially because
also what I teach and train and help
people with has helped their sales teams
with their inbound lead conversion so I
try not to be a hypocrite like if I'm
teaching everyone how to close inbound
leads then it seems weird if I'm making
cold calls so you know it's mostly
relationship and you
reaching out and building it that way
and then once the content mean you know
creating ebooks creating different
funnel type things where somebody finds
it and they go okay and then we start
that conversation great stuff and just
before we wrap things up for an inbound
lead Jason I know everyone's got their
own strategy I recently heard from Josh
Braun who was on this and podcast a
little while back I think he post on
LinkedIn one of the starting questions
was when someone gets in touch with you
asked and what motivated you to get in
touch so for example with with ourselves
it might be I saw an ad or I found on
Google and me my response might be
that's great I see a whole bunch of
companies on Google but what about us
specifically prompted you to get in
touch with us and then they'll start
diving into why I probably started
diving into the issues that having
they're probably talk for about five
minutes not always but it's a good open
above you got any great opening
questions to ask in bone and queries no
I mean I think it depending on what
you're selling and where the leads are
coming from I think that's a great way
to go I've seen sales people be
successful that was you know what about
that letter that caught your attention
what was it that interested in you there
what is it that you're looking for help
with you know for me I go more with the
help with than the why you know what did
you like that you saw I think it's just
personal preference it's also you this
is one of those things where you have to
be very careful and I I don't teach a
lot of sales like lions and tactics
because it's more of the fundamentals
and I focus on the foundational stuff
that then makes all of that easier but
you've got to be really careful even
with that line you're saying from Josh
I've heard reps say it's like okay what
was it about that the website that you
know you were interested in and it's
like almost instantly confrontational
and dramatic and you know that can
really repel people so I take more of
the you know how can I help you today
what is it you're looking for help with
and then just like you said just see if
I can get them to just talk and ramble
on until you know I know enough to ask
more questions go to cumin and and just
before we kind of finalize things if
anyone for anyone that's tuning and it's
thinking of starting their own company
or anyone that's started their own
business very recently have you got any
tips or any golden nuggets of advice
that might help them out in their first
weeks months of starting a company you
know I would say if you're talking
really early on I think one of the
biggest keys is just to be really
self-aware I mean I think that's the
answer for everything anyway in life but
to be really self-aware with what who
you are what your strengths are and what
value you're providing and then also be
aware of your weaknesses and whatever
blind spots you can because anybody who
starts a business it's because they have
an idea or you know passion for
something or you know they're going
after some kind of goal and so what's
driving you so the why what's on the
vision board because you're gonna need
some big reason why because life is
going to punch you in the face several
times it just does that and normally and
you're gonna hit roadblocks you're gonna
hit walls you're gonna hit barriers and
you're gonna have to have something that
pushes you through so you don't just you
know fold up and and quit which
obviously isn't the goal and so you want
to be self-aware enough to know what are
your strengths like what are you really
good at which part can you do really
well and then when financially
reasonable and responsible how can you
get help and the other things and I'll
tell you the number one book I recommend
to anybody who's running a small
business even if they're by themselves
as a solopreneur especially is Michael
it's called a myth revisited by Michael
Gerber it's he emitted and it's not the
electronic myth it's the entrepreneurial
myth and literally he describes why most
small businesses fail and I won't go
into details so people can check it out
but he wrote that book in the 80s he's
written updated versions there's all
kinds of advanced modules but he myths
revisited a seat aux about why they fail
and what you can do about it and
building systems around it nice man I
would love to check that book out and
put a link in the description for the
show excellent stuff okay Jason well we
like to ask everyone that comes on if
you could thank just one person either
dead or life having a positive influence
and yourself and your career who would
that be and why man that's a tough one
you know I for me I would say it was my
grandmother you know she's the the
biggest influence I would say because no
matter what this is what good grandma's
do is like she always believed in me
and always push me to do what I wanted
to do to be happy and the line that she
always used to say is God God don't make
junk and you know there's everyone has
this thing right everyone has this value
and they can do something and she plus
my parents were very much you know and
to you know just go your path and
keeping in mind again I'm a I'm a sales
consultant with a bachelor's degree in
marine biology like I'm a hot mess on
paper like I went a very windy path and
so was that support that helped me just
you know keep going and then really put
it all together awesome man
well everyone you've been tuning into
Sam's business group show we sit down
with business leaders experts and
entrepreneurs from across the globe we
found out that story how digital
marketing is helped along the way and
actually so tips and insights to help
you skyrocket your business and your
sales Jason tell us a bit more about
your company how people can connect with
itself and the best way to get in touch
so Qatar consulting group is the company
and recently what I've done is just to
keep it simple because I have so many
things out there for people to check out
is if they go to Jason cutter calm
that's jsonc you tter I basically built
that as a hub so if you go to Jason
cutter calm you can go to the consulting
website you can find my authentic
persuasion website and ebook I have a
free ebook there the podcast links also
for anybody who's in sales sales
leadership want to get on a phone call
there's a link on there to schedule time
I'm a sales nerd and a business nerd so
I love talking any what about sales
seeing if there's ways I can help them
so that's a good hub to find all of the
the various things I got going on really
in mine Jason thanks so much coming on
Sam thanks for having me this was fun
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers you could be missing out
on regular inbound opportunities all
because your website isn't on the first
page of Google perhaps already spending
lots of money on advertising but your
website is failing to convert all of
your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow of new customers if
you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings idle
clients straight to you connect with Sam
Dunning on LinkedIn or book a free 20
minute consultation by a web choice UK
com that's web choice UK com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts